doc: clarify the meaning of legacy status (#42269)
nodejs/node: doc/api/documentation.md

<!-- separator -->

> Stability: 3 - Legacy. It is the same as a forever Documentation-only
> deprecation. While it likely will not be removed, and is still
> covered by semantic-versioning guarantees, use of the feature is no longer

> > recommended as it is not officially supported by the project.

Reviewer: I think likewise the added context here isn't helpful to users. The original text tells them what they need to know clearly. The added context raises more questions than it answers.

Author: Moved the relevant part of the text to `deprecations.md`. Does this look better?

<!-- separator -->

> > Stability 3 - Legacy. Although it is unlikely to be removed and is still
> > covered by semantic-versioning guarantees, it is no longer actively

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```suggestion
> Stability 3 - Legacy. Although this feature is unlikely to be removed and is
> still covered by semantic-versioning guarantees, it is no longer actively
```

> maintained, and other alternatives are available.

Features are marked as legacy rather than being deprecated if their use does no

> harm, and they are widely relied upon within the npm ecosystem. Bugs found in

Reviewer 2: though not specified anywhere, IMO, the word `ecosystem` is qualified with `Javascript` when we are dealing with a topic that is related to language specification, `Node.js` when the topic is an API spec, and `npm` when it is a module spec. So may be`Node.js ecosystem` is more appropriate here?

Author: @gireeshpunathil I chose to use "npm ecosystem" here because it's used in the description of the "stable" stability index: https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/66db1169d7c9cee01e53217b6f4378df91151d96/doc/api/documentation.md?plain=1#L38-L39
Perhaps we can change both in a separate pr?

> Stability: 3 - Legacy. The feature is no longer recommended for use. While it
> likely will not be removed, and is still covered by semantic-versioning

> > guarantees, use of the feature should be avoided if possible.

Reviewer 3: I'd prefer to keep the stronger wording. In my experience people will ignore stronger warnings when it's not possible, but will pick up something that's got a softer warning effectively because of logic along the lines of"how bad could it be".

Reviewer: We could even strengthen it further by making it active voice. (Suggestion to follow....)

Author: I too would prefer the stronger wording if we were okay with emitting a runtime warning (this is not the same as removing the API), which [people seem to be -1 about](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/42232#issuecomment-1059987413).

> > Stability: 3 - Legacy. The feature is no longer recommended for use. While it
> > likely will not be removed, and is still covered by semantic-versioning
> > guarantees, use of the feature should be avoided if possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Stability: 3 - Legacy. Avoid using the feature. Although it is unlikely 
> to be removed and is still covered by semantic-versioning guarantees,
> there are more robust and secure alternatives.
```

Reviewer 4: It might be helpful to add something to the effect of "it is not necessary to track down all instances of this feature in every module in your dep tree and spam the maintainers with PRs" but maybe with like 80% less snark than that 😅

```md
> Stability 3 - Legacy. Avoid using the feature in new code. Although it is unlikely to be removed and is still covered by semantic-versioning guarantees, it is no longer actively maintained. Features are marked as Legacy rather than being Deprecated if their use does no harm, and they are widely relied upon within the npm ecosystem. Bugs found in Legacy features are unlikely to be fixed.
```

Reviewer: Maybe that can go directly below rather than inside the banner?

```suggestion
> Stability: 3 - Legacy. Avoid using the feature. Although it is unlikely 
> to be removed and is still covered by semantic-versioning guarantees,
> there are more robust and secure alternatives.

Features are marked as Legacy rather than Deprecated if they are too
widely relied upon within the npm ecosystem to be removed.
```

Reviewer 5: The "if their use does no harm" part is pretty useful; it tells everyone that there is *nothing wrong* with using Legacy things, and thus no reason to pester maintainers to migrate away from them.

Reviewer: > The "if their use does no harm" part is pretty useful;

I'm not sure everyone would agree with the characterization that Legacy APIs do not harm and that there's nothing wrong with using them. Regarding `url.parse()`, our docs currently say this:

> Because the url.parse() method uses a lenient, non-standard algorithm for parsing URL strings, security issues can be introduced. Specifically, issues with [host name spoofing](https://hackerone.com/reports/678487) and incorrect handling of usernames and passwords have been identified.

I would consider that at odds with "there is nothing wrong with using" it, although I'm sure there are semantic arguments to be had here.

Author: > I'm not sure everyone would agree with the characterization that Legacy APIs do no harm and that there's nothing wrong with using them.

If the API is actually harmful and there is no way to fix such issues, I think we should deprecate it because we don't want our users to get harmed.

I think https://stackoverflow.com/a/2873695 sums up what deprecated and legacy means really well:

> Deprecation means that it's bad and shouldn't be used.

> Legacy just means that it's old and there are ways of doing something which are generally, but not necessarily, better.

Given that url.parse() has a performance benefit and also makes it easier to handle relative URLs, I don't see why people should not use it even in newer code.

Author: Updated accordingly, PTAL.
